# Assignment 3

## Assignment instructions:

### Yosemite Village yearly weather
Temperature is cyclical, not only on a 24 hour basis but also on a yearly basis. Convert the dataset into a richer format whereby the day of the year is also captured. For example the time “20150212 1605”, can be converted into (43, 965) because the 12th of February is the 43rd day of the year, and 16:05 is the 965th minute of the day.

This data covers 6 years, so split the data into a training set of the first 5 years, and a testing set of the 6th year.

Using the temperature dataset from your pre-class work (https://course-resources.minerva.kgi.edu/uploaded_files/mke/rj3Edn/yosemite-temperatures.zip) perform the following:
1. Cover each input dimension with a list of radial basis functions. This turns the pair of inputs into a much richer representation, mapping (d,t) into (Φ₁(d), Φ₂(t)). Experiment with different numbers of radial basis functions and different widths of the radial basis function in different dimensions.
2. Using this new representation, build a linear parameter model that captures both seasonal variations and daily variations.
3. Create two plots, one showing the time-of-day contribution, and one showing the time-of-year contribution.
4. (Optional) Make a 3D plot showing temperature as a function of (day, time). Make sure to label your axes!
5. Using R², quantify how your model performs on the testing data if you:
    1. Train with just the daily component of the model
    2. Train with just the yearly component of the model
    3. Train with the full model.

Please convert everything to a single PDF file and submit it. Be sure to include all the code necessary to reproduce your results, but please leave out exploratory code that does not contribute to any figures or final results. This assignment is not just about code, and any choices which need justification, or insights you gain should be included in plain English.
