# Assignment 6

## Assignment instructions:

### Machine Learning Fashionista 2.0

In this assignment we revisit the dataset from the dimension reduction unit. The pictures of clothing are all originally taken from ImageNet, which is a large dataset containing over a million photos with many different categories. Every year there is a competition to see which techniques perform the best. The winning entry is then open-sourced and made available to all machine learning researchers for further research or to allow the development of novel applications.

Now we want to compare SVMs and deep neural networks.

#### 1. Support Vector Machines
- Train a support vector classifier using each of the following kernels:
  - Linear
  - Poly (degree = 2)
  - RBF
- If you encounter any issues with training time or memory issues, then you may use a reduced dataset, but carefully detail why and how you reduced the dataset. Unnecessarily reducing the dataset will result in reduced grades!
- Report your error rates on the testing dataset for the different kernels.

#### 2. Deep Neural Networks
Using Keras load the VGG16 network. This is the convolutional neural network which won ImageNet 2014, and the accompanying paper is available here, if you want to read more about it. Keras code to perform this step is available here, under the heading "Extract features with VGG16."
- Perform transfer learning using VGG16.
- What loss function did you choose, and why?
- What performance do you achieve on your test set and how does this compare to the performance you were originally able to achieve with the linear methods?
- (optional) If you want, you can also perform a "fine-tuning" step. In this step we unfreeze the weights and then perform a few more iterations of gradient descent. This fine tuning can help the network specialize its performance in the particular task that it is needed for. Now, measure the new performance on your test set and compare it to the performance from the previous step.
#### 3. Comparison
Write a short comparison of the two methods, and provide a brief argument of which method you feel is superior, and why.


### Submission:
Please convert everything to a single PDF file and submit it. Be sure to include all the code necessary to reproduce your results, but please leave out exploratory code that does not contribute to any figures or final results. This assignment is not just about code, and any choices which need justification, or insights you gain should be included in plain English.
